# PlootoCareer
This repository is created for applying the position of BI Analyst at Plooto. 

I performed an A/B Test on Instacart business decision: in their shopper hiring funnel, would initiating the required applicant background check earlier in
the process improve conversion rates. After writing SQL queries and aided by statistical calculations such as the z-test, I concluded that the aforementioned hypothesis was correct and it was a cost-benefit decision.

The Data Analytics Project was a group project I did on variables that would have an impact on bankruptcy. We found a relative dataset on Kaggle that was collected from the Taiwan Economic Journal for the years 1999-2009. Company bankruptcy was defined based on the business regulations of the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We performed subset selection, logistic regression, K-NN classification and decision tree models to discover possible variables that affect bankruptcy. Our findings showed that borrowing dependency rate, operating profit rate and cash reinvestment ratio of the compnay were some of the causes of bankruptcy. Detailed information of the project can be seen in the file "Data Analytics Report.docx".

Data Science and Business Intelligence Project was to predict whether a NYC restaurant would pass or fail food safety inspection. We gathered the dataset on Kaggle as well and we cleaned the dataset to eliminate unnecessary and dirty data. We performed linear classifier (SVM) and logistic regression and classification tree model in R to support our hypothesis that "grade" in the most critical variable. We also utilized Tableau to visualize the data to further back our findings. Details can be seen in "Report.docx" under the folder.

Under Large Scale Computing with Hadoop Project, my teammates and I developed a consulting proposal for prospective opportunity that would lend the client, Lime, to a data analytics solution. Detailed information about this project can be found in the file  "Hadoop Team Project Proposal.docx". We conducted text mining, sentiment analysis, supervised learning via multiple linear regression, best subset selection and other tools and techniques using R, which led to two discoveries: (1) Lime scooters usage is at their lowest during winter and autumn and during 3am to 5am; (2) Scooters usage is at their highest around campus. The business recommendations then are: (1) Perform maintenance in winter or autumn; (2) allocate more scooters around the universities.

For the Data Visualization Project, we visualized some of our findings in the Data Science and Business Intelligence project using R. The purpose of this project was to identify which type of restaurants were more popular in the different neighborhoods in NYC, as well as restaurant inspection grades based on zip codes. Using Shiny we were able to create an interactive web app that showcases the aforemention graphs.

Under Equity Research were three companies I compiled financial statements for during a financial analyst internship. I prepared for their financials, projected valuations, and analyzed risks. combined with my understandings of the fiancial world, I made recommendations to my supervisor that the companies should not be included in the company's investing portfolio. 

mes-backend and xiu-service-platform are two projects I was a member of for my previous job in China. mes-backend has parts of the back-end code for the MES(Manufacturing Execution System) developing project written in java. The goal was to develop a system that would help small-to-mid-size manufacturing companies expedite and digitalize their operating process. We used techniques and frameworks such as Springboot, Docker, Redis and MySQL for the project. The system was used by several local companies and had possitive impact on their daily operation. 

xiu-service-platform has parts of the code for an ongoing project of the same name, which was to develop a manufacturing-industry-focused IoT service platform. Users are able to connect their physical equipments such as ACs, PLCs and many others to the platform, and visualize crucial data on demand using the platform. The project was mainly written in java.

Mortgage Mathematics is a fun project I worked on to project lifetime interest payment and to predicate the mortgage default rate.
